
# Project: TMDB Movie Dataset Modelling

Short description or introduction of your project goes here.

## Table of Contents of main.ipynb
1. [Project Description](#project-description)
2. [Dataset Descriptions and Data Understanding](#dataset-descriptions-and-data-understanding)
3. [Import Libraries](#import-libraries)
4. [Read Dataset](#read-dataset)
5. [Dataset Overview](#dataset-overview)
   - [Overview](#overview)
   - [Summary Statistics for Numerical Variables](#summary-statistics-for-numerical-variables)
   - [Summary Statistics for Categorical Variables](#summary-statistics-for-categorical-variables)
6. [Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA)](#exploratory-data-analysis-eda)
   - [Numerical Columns](#numerical-columns)
   - [Categorical Columns](#categorical-columns)
7. [Data Preprocessing](#data-preprocessing)
   - [Data Cleaning](#data-cleaning)
     - [Genre](#genre)
     - [Keywords](#keywords)
     - [Production Companies](#production-companies)
     - [Production Countries](#production-countries)
     - [Spoken Languages](#spoken-languages)
     - [Relative Net Income Ratio based on Budget](#relative-net-income-ratio-based-on-budget)
   - [Remove Outliers](#remove-outliers)
     - [original_language](#original_language)
     - [first_genre](#first_genre)
     - [production_company](#production_company)
     - [production_country](#production_country)
     - [spoken_language](#spoken_language)
8. [OneHot Encoding](#onehot-encoding)
9. [Scaling](#scaling)
10. [Data Visualization](#data-visualization)
    - [Numerical Columns](#numerical-columns-1)
      - [Plot histogram for numerical columns](#plot-histogram-for-numerical-columns)
      - [Plot boxplot for numerical columns](#plot-boxplot-for-numerical-columns)
      - [Heatmap for Correlation matrix](#heatmap-for-correlation-matrix)
    - [Categorical Columns](#categorical-columns-1)
      - [Relation between revenue and popularity](#relation-between-revenue-and-popularity)
      - [Relation between revenue and budget](#relation-between-revenue-and-budget)
      - [Relation between revenue and runtime](#relation-between-revenue-and-runtime)
      - [Relation between vote_average and budget](#relation-between-vote_average-and-budget)
      - [Relation between first_genre and revenue](#relation-between-first_genre-and-revenue)
      - [Relation between production_company and revenue](#relation-between-production_company-and-revenue)
      - [Relation between production_country and revenue](#relation-between-production_country-and-revenue)
11. [Model Building](#model-building)
12. [Regression](#regression)
    - [Linear Regression](#linear-regression)
    - [CatBoost Regressor](#catboost-regressor)
13. [Classification](#classification)
    - [Logistic Regression](#logistic-regression)
    - [DecisionTree Classifier](#decisiontree-classifier)
    - [RandomForest Classifier](#randomforest-classifier)
    - [XGBoost](#xgboost)
    - [Classification Results](#classification-results)
    - [ROC-AUC](#roc-auc)

## Project Description

The aim of this project is to gain some insight about the data for further
modeling it to for investigating the profitability of the movies. That is, your
job is to predict whether based on some features a movie is profitable or
not. Obviously, you need to gain inight about your data, so before
modeling it is necessary to do a comprehensive Exploratory Data Analysis,
and then based on your knowledge dive into the modeling phase.
After the modeling you will be asked to design a simple recommendation
system. Do a little research about different recommendation system
schemes (e.g. Collaborative filtering, content-based filtering) and design a
simple recommender system.


## Dataset Overview

What can we say about the success of a movie before it is released? Are
there certain companies (Pixar?) that have found a consistent formula?
Given that major films costing over $100 million to produce can still flop,
this question is more important than ever to the industry. Film aficionados
might have different interests. Can we predict which films will be highly
rated, whether or not they are a commercial success?


Columns of Dataset:
- `budget`: The budget of the movie.
- `genres`: The genres of the movie.
- `homepage`: The homepage URL of the movie.
- `id`: Unique identifier for each movie.
- `keywords`: Keywords related to the movie.
- `original_language`: The original language of the movie.
- `original_title`: The original title of the movie.
- `overview`: A brief overview or summary of the movie.
- `popularity`: The popularity score of the movie.
- `production_companies`: Companies involved in producing the movie.
- `production_countries`: Countries where the movie was produced.
- `release_date`: The release date of the movie.
- `revenue`: The revenue generated by the movie.
- `runtime`: The runtime duration of the movie.
- `spoken_languages`: Languages spoken in the movie.
- `status`: The status of the movie (e.g., Released).
- `tagline`: The tagline of the movie.
- `title`: The title of the movie (again, duplicated).
- `vote_average`: The average vote/rating received by the movie.
- `vote_count`: The count of votes/ratings received by the movie.


## Model Building

Two methods have been used to predict the success of the movies:
- Regression and classification

## Regression

- Linear Regression
- CatBoost Regressor

## Classification

- Logistic Regression
- DecisionTree Classifier
- RandomForest Classifier
- XGBoost
    

## ROC-AUC
